Hello and welcome to this Python tutorial.
Alright, so this is going to be a very exciting tutorial,
because in this tutorial we are going to see
if we can achieve our goal to get an accuracy
of more than 80% on the test set.
So did you figure out a way to reach that accuracy
without doing any parameter tuning?
Well at the end of the previous tutorial I gave you a hint.
The hint was the answer is in the title of the course,
deep learning and indeed the solution that will
make us achieve our goal
is to make a deeper deep learning model
that is a deeper convolutional neural network.
And how can we make it deeper?
Well, we have two options.
First option is to add another convolutional layer
and the second option is to add
another fully connected layer.
So maybe you experimented
and maybe you figured out that the best solution
is actually to add a convolutional layer.
So that's what we'll do in this tutorial.
But you can always improve your model
by considering the two options
that is adding a convolutional layer
as well as a fully connected layer.
But I bet that we managed to reach our goal
of getting a test set accuracy of more than 80%
by only adding a second convolutional layer.
You'll see how it will definitely improve
our performance result on your observations
that is on the test set,
as well as reducing the over fitting.
So let's do it and let's see if I'm right.
Besides, it's important to do this tutorial,
because you're gonna see how it is so easy
to add another convolutional layer.
Because basically what I only have to do is take this line,
copy it and then paste it right after the first two steps.
That is right after we build a convolutional layer
on which we applied max pooling to get our pooling layer.
So that is exactly right here and that is of course
before the flattening step.
So I'm going to paste this line here
that adds another convolutional layer.
And of course, we also need to apply max pooling
on this convolutional layer that we just added.
And so I'm going to paste that here.
And let's specify here
that we're adding a second convolutional layer.
All right and now in these two lines here
we just need to change one thing.
It's the input shape parameter.
Because you know we had to specify
this input shape parameter,
because this corresponds to our image
and how our CNN should expect
that is which dimensions it should expect
as input of the CNN.
And so that's why we specify this input shape parameter
to specify the dimensions of the pre processed images
that are going to be the input of the CNN.
But here we are adding a second convolutional layer
and the input is going to be not the images
but the pooled feature maps
coming from the previous two steps.
So we're going to apply the convolution trick
and the max pooling trick,
not on the images
but on the pooled feature maps.
So that's exactly the same operation,
the same trick but it's on the pooled feature maps
from the two previous steps.
And so we don't need to include this parameter
input shape here because we only need to include that
when we don't have anything previously.
Here we needed to include that
because we didn't have the images previously yet.
But here we have something before
it's the pooled feature maps of the two previous steps.
So Keras will know this
and therefore we don't need
to include this input shape parameter.
So in conclusion when you're adding
a new convolutional layer,
well you just need a number of features detectors,
the dimensions of these feature detectors
and an activation function.
And then you apply max pooling with
only this pool size parameter.
And so here we're going to keep the same parameters
you'll see that we'll get good results.
And then if you want to have fun
adding new convolutional layers,
then you can increase the number of feature detectors
and double it each time.
So for example, you can add a third convolutional layer
with 64 feature detectors.
That's a common practice and that leads to great results.
But I bet that now with only these two convolutional layers,
we'll get to a test set accuracy of more than 80%.
So let's check it out.
As you can notice, I restarted my spider.
So what I'm going to do now is basically select everything,
and I will just need to press Enter
and this will run the whole code.
So before I run it,
let's remember in the previous tutorial
we only had one convolutional layer
and we got an accuracy of 75% on the test set.
And the difference of 10% between the accuracy
of the test set and the accuracy of the training set.
Because the accuracy of the training set was about 85%.
And now we have one goal with this new CNN
with two convolutional layers,
it is to get a test set accuracy of more than 80%
and a much smaller difference
between the accuracy of the test set
and the one of the training set.
So let's see,
let's run this
and let's get some little coffee.
So ready? 3, 2, 1, go.
using TensorFlow backend,
found 8000 images belonging to two classes
for the training set.
2000 images belonging to two classes for the test set.
And here we go with the first epoch one out of 25
and we're beginning with an accuracy of 50%
for the training set
and the loss function around 70%.
And remember this is going to decrease
and this is going to increase.
And not only we want this accuracy to go over 80%,
but we also want the accuracy of the test set
to go over 80%.
So right now it's running.
I'm very excited to see what happens in the end.
And before we get some little coffee
or get some lunch,
let's see the accuracy of the test set
for the first epoch.
Here we go, almost there.
And here we go, first epoch done.
The accuracy obtained on the test set
began at 55%, almost 56%.
So yes that's actually like before.
We're starting slowly,
we're starting low.
But let's see what we'll get in the end.
So right now we're in the second epoch,
the accuracy of the training set
is already increasing pretty well,
we already reached 60%.
As you can see the ETA is quite the same as before
so it's not because we added a second convolutional layer
that we need to wait more, so it should be okay.
The second epoch is almost done and the accuracy is,
well, increasing 64%.
Let's see what we'll get at the end of the second epoch.
And we got indeed 64% and 68% on the test set.
Alright so let's let this run.
let's get some coffee or let's take a little nap.
As far as I'm concerned I just woke up
so I won't take a nap.
I'll just be happy with a good coffee.
And let's keep in touch in 20 minutes.
Alright we're almost done,
let's see wat we get.
That's the last epoch 25 out of 25.
ETA five seconds.
We are about to get an accuracy of 85% for the training set
and 82% for the test set.
Wonderful, not only we reached our goal
to obtain the test set accuracy over 80%
and also we reduced the difference between the training set
accuracy and the test set accuracy.
Because now indeed we get a difference of 3%
as opposed to this 10% difference
that we got in the previous tutorial.
So congratulations, we made a great
convolutional neural network model with a good prediction.
So you can still play around and try to improve this model.
Of course, adding more convolutional layers
will help get an even better accuracy.
But if you want to really get a better accuracy,
well, that would be to choose a higher target size here
for your images of the train set and the test set
so that you get more information of your pixel patterns.
Because indeed if you increase the size of your images
that is the size down to which
all your images will be resized.
Well you will get a lot more pixels in the rows
and a lot more pixels in the columns in your input images.
And therefore you will have more information
to take on the pixels.
So you can try this but I would recommend using a GPU
or trying this before getting to sleep
and you might even be able to get an accuracy over 90%.
Alright, so that's the end of this section.
Congratulations for having made
a convolutional neural network.
We did not make a cake and I hope this can be useful
for you in the future.
Until then, enjoy deep learning.